{{Infobox character
|image = The BFG Cropped.jpg
|name = The Big Friendly Giant
|voice = Mark Rylance
|actor =  
|films = ''[[The BFG]]''
|friends = [[Sophie (The BFG)|Sophie]], The Queen, [[Mary (The BFG)|Mary]]
|enemies = Fellow giants; The Fleshlumpeater, The Bloodbottler, The Bonecruncher, The Childchewer, The Gizzardgulper, The Meatdripper, The Maidmasher, The Manhugger, and The Butcher Boy
|inspiration = The character from the original book by [[Roald Dahl]]
|occupation = Dream blower
|powers = Speed, Strength, Camouflage
|alias = The BFG
|home = Giant Country
|likes = Frobscottle, Dream Catching, Sophie, fruits, being accepted by humans, writing, breakfast foods, whizzpoppers
|dislikes = Snozzcumbers, burping, his fellow giants eating "Human Beans", Sophie not listening to him, losing his former friend, Sophie correcting his speech
|paraphernalia = Dream horn<br>Fire stick
|status = Active}}

'''The Big Friendly Giant''' is the deuteragonist and title character in the [[2016]] [[The BFG|fantasy film of the same name]].

==Role in the film==
The BFG's shadow walks past by the orphanage [[Sophie (The BFG)|Sophie]] is at to which as he enters, Sophie sees him just before leaving. He then later grabs Sophie and takes her to a faraway land to which as Sophie looks at him just as she finds herself inside the BFG preparing his meal to which as Sophie looks at him, the giant looks at her to which he tells Sophie that it is time for dinner time. He then confuses Sophie for an ingredient and when Sophie explains to know where she is, the BFG explains that Sophie is in Giant Country, land of the giants, as Sophie explains to him that she and the BFG traveled a long way to which the BFG sees a couple of man-eating giants walking from a distance. The BFG explains to her that he knows about the giants Fleshlumpeater and a couple more giants that followed [[Fleshlumpeater]], the dangerous giant the BFG has ever known. The BFG explains that he doesn't eat anyone like Sophie unlike what Fleshlumpeater does and when talking to her about her parents, Sophie explains that she doesn't have any, explaining to him that both of them died when Sophie was a baby.

Sophie explains to him that about the matron's unfair treatment to the orphans. Sophie tells the BFG to know if the other giants are nice, to which he explains that these giants he saw are ravenous man-eating monsters unlike him. Sophie asks him to know why he brought her to Giant Country, to which he explains that the reason why he took her to this location is because Sophie's desire to see a giant like him. As the BFG keeps talking to her about Fleshlumpeater, Sophie explains to her that she won't tell as she explains to him that she is untrustworthy, believing no one would believe in her info just as she argues with him, to which the BFG explains to her that she would tell the whole world about the existence of giants, explaining to her that she wants to go home to which he denies, telling Sophie to stay in Giant Country for the rest of their lives. The BFG then warns Sophie that she must never go to Fleshlumpeater's lair without him or she would make it to her final journey into the giant's prey. While discussing, Sophie corrects the words the BFG mispronounces to which the BFG explains that he couldn't help with the mispronunciations to which Sophie apologizes to him for being rude to him.

The BFG then takes out a glowing blue jar out of his valise as well as a book written by Nicholas Nickleby and explains that there are dreams in this jar as he uses a magnifying glass to read the book due to its small size just as Sophie explains to him that he can read before Sophie stays on the mast. The BFG then moves to a cavern and discovers his collection of jars inside to which he uses one with a red glowing light and experiments it only to find out that the BFG is sleeping on the ship.

The next day, Sophie talks with the BFG who explains to her that the fizz he is using is Frobscottle, the drink the giants enjoy. Seeing the fizz inside, it is known that the drink gives the BFG to launch him in the air to which the two hear Fleshlumpeater outside to which as he enters, the BFG tells Sophie to hide from him to which Sophie hides inside the Snozzcumber, the vegetable that the BFG uses for cooking. The BFG asks Fleshlumpeater to know if he tried Snozzcumber before to which he explains that he hasn't just as Fleshlumpeater explains that the outside of it smells horrible to him. However, the BFG finds out that Fleshlumpeater only eats beans, not other vegetables, causing Sophie to fall out of her hiding place. Fleshlumpeater explains to the BFG that he dislikes fruits, vegetables, and water just before drinking Frobscottle just as he maliciously explains to him that he insults the other giants for betraying him. Sophie then leaves the Snozzcumber as the BFG takes him to his lab just as the BFG gives Sophie a bath to clean herself from the Snozzcumber juice. After giving Sophie a bath, the BFG gives her something to wear to which after Sophie dresses up and decides to keep his work explanation private, she explains to him that she has been stuck in Giant Country, hoping to return back to the real world. The BFG then gives Sophie a nice safe place to keep her safe from Fleshlumpeater just before the BFG returns to work.

Sophie then curiously explores the BFG's workshop by herself and asks him that he can't keep secrets from her to which she explains to him that she sneaks around at night, sometimes steals, and also lies. She explains to him that she never had a giant friend like him as Sophie explains to him that she is very lonely with no friend. She then warns the BFG about Fleshlumpeater who is looking after her to which after discussing with him about the giant she talked about, the BFG and Sophie walk outside and plan to get to the top of the mountain without disturbing Fleshlumpeater's henchmen only for the BFG to be grabbed by Bloodbottler just as Sophie escapes into a cab to which Gizzardgulper carries the vehicle still with Sophie inside as the two giants speed toward each other to which BFG manages to escape from them with Sophie on his hand.

Having escaped the giants when a rainstorm arrives at Giant Country, the BFG then takes Sophie to Dream Country to look at the stars above them as he explains to her about the whispering things he hears just as he and Sophie approach a large body of water upon seeing a large tree from a distance. While observing, the BFG explains to Sophie that someone called him the Big Friendly Giant to which Sophie introduces herself to the BFG just as the two stare at the tree in awe upon seeing glowing lights on the tree. He then notices an orange glow of light to which he calls it a Phizzwizard as he attempts to catch it with his net to which he manages to catch it with his hands instead as it goes near Sophie, giving the Golden Phizzwizard to her as he puts it in the jar. The Phizzwizard then draws a picture of Sophie to which Sophie looks at it upon seeing more glowing Dreams pass by. Sophie then chases after a magenta Dream to while the BFG labels a jar "Sophie's Dream" just as Sophie continues chasing after the Dreams inside, to which the BFG sees Sophie catching a red one. Sophie gives the Dream to the BFG just as he explains to Sophie that there are also Bad Dreams too in this area, to which he plans to lock up the one Sophie caught. The BFG explains to Sophie that this Dream tells of what Sophie has done to it as she continues to look for the BFG. She then finds him suddenly as she explains to him that she will call him BFG for short.

Back at the real world, the BFG shows a boy sleeping in bed just as Sophie feels inspired to make everyone happy. Sophie then asks the BFG to know if his father or mother tells him about Dreams to which he denies, explaining that he has no mother or father. It is then known that the BFF has heard her heart at the orphanage just as he uses his instrument he made, summoning a couple of Good Dreams to a boy and two parents in the real world. It is then known that the boy is dreaming of him and his father using a telephone, according to the BFG.

Having given the boy a good dream, the BFG returns Sophie to Giant Country, he then points to Fleshlumpeater and his henchmen marching just as Sophie devises a plan about the man-eating giants. He then encounters Sophie again outside the orphanage and approaches her, explaining a plan to defeat Fleshlumpeater and his minions and save Giant Country from them. The BFG then continues taking Sophie back to Giant Country to which the two arrive back to the BFG's workshop. The BFG himself is confronted by Fleshlumpeater and a group of man-eating giants which begin toppling sections of jars containing Dreams inside, much to the BFG's worry. To protect Sophie from them, the BFG grabs a hot poker from the train's engine and fights against Fleshlumpeater as the other giants react in fear just as he sends Fleshlumpeater out of the lair. The BFG then notices the wreckage caused during the ambush to which he approaches Sophie who is planning to meet the Queen. The BFG then mixes numerous Dreams inside the infuser to help Sophie plan to see the Queen to make her dream come true.

Arriving at Buckingham Palace, the BFG then takes Sophie to the Palace to see the Queen while avoiding a group of guards patrolling to which he opens a window for her to enter, giving the Queen a dream of Fleshlumpeater being real. The next day, the BFG then arrives as the guards arrive and prepare to fire at him, believing he is a threat to the Queen to which the Queen tells Mr. Tibbs to tell the guards that the BFG is doing no harm to which the guards lower their weapons so he is welcomed in peace. The BFG emotionally approaches the Queen explaining to her that he came to see her friend Sophie to give her assistance 

The BFG enters the Palace where a staffer tells him to navigate his way carefully and slowly to avoid causing damage to the hotel to which he accidentally knocks down a chandelier blocking his path, as Sophie explains to her that he has never went to Buckingham Palace before just as a staffer and some guards give the BFG his valise just as he carries it to a giant table made for him. Mr. Tibbs and a group of footmen and help the BFG feel comfortable sitting in the giant-sized seat as more footmen deliver a ladder so the footmen give him breakfast. Due to his giant size, the BFG is given a pitchfork to use as a normal fork, a shovel to use as a spoon, and a sword to use as a normal knife for him to use as utensils to which Sophie and the Queen watch him eat some slices of toast mixed with eggs together to which he feels satisfied of the breakfast he enjoys, to which he gets to try new foods other than Snozzcumber in Giant Country just as the footmen give him tea for him to drink pouring tea on a bowl of punch. Sophie then instructs the BFG to drink tea properly to which the BFG doesn't like the coffee served to him as he prefers Frobscottle over coffee.

The BFG then shows the Queen a bottle of Frobscottle to which upon asking her for music, she believes that she would hire bagpipers to play music for her to which a fellow footman arrives and explains that the generals have been briefed,before as a group of military generals march into the Palace just as the Queen devises a plan to arrive at Giant Country to defeat Fleshlumpeater as the BFG is tasked to chart the course to know where Giant Country is just as he tells the generals to know where it is. The Queen then tells the generals that they will go to Giant Country with the BFG to fight against Fleshlumpeater. As the BFG pours Frobscottle into champagne glasses, Sophie gives toast to believe in the BFG to help protect England from Fleshlumpeater as everyone does a toast while the BFG pours some Frobscottle on his punch bowl for some of the Queen's corgis to drink. After the Frobscottle, the Queen sends her allies to Giant Country to defeat a group of man-eating giants lead by Fleshlumpeater.

Later, military helicopters follow the BFG to Giant Country just as he goes back to his workshop. As Sophie curiously asks of why he is using the Trogglehumper against Fleshlumpeater and his henchmen, the BFG explains that it would help give giants a disadvantage in a plan to defeat the vicious giant leader to which the BFG uses the Trogglehumper in his infuser as part of his plan to defeat Fleshlumpeater.

At the spot where Fleshlumpeater and his fellow giants are at, the BFG then tells a story of Sophie's journey to a happy end, explaining that this story would be part of her heart's desire as he hopes of Sophie's dream to come true. The BFG explains to Sophie that she has more dreams to catch, but not in Giant Country just as she shows empathy to BFG, to which he explains to Sophie that he left his instrument at Buckingham Palace to which she later notices Sophie using the Trogglehumper against Fleshlumpeater and the other giants, much to his worry. He then counters Fleshlumpeater's attack and explains to him that he should be be defeated forever to which military helicopters fire ropes at him, tying him up. The BFG then saves Sophie from being hit by Fleshlumpeater who is tied by by the military just as the two watch the helicopters lifting all the villainous giants. Fleshlumpeater and the rest of the giants are later dispatched and banished to a faraway island never to disturb the BFG once again.

The next day, the BFG then feels happy of himself of Sophie always believing in him as he joyfully smiles in his home.

==Gallery==
<gallery position="center" widths="150" spacing="small" captionalign="center">
The BFG 15.png
The BFG 18.png
The BFG 17.png
The BFG 16.png
The BFG 39.png
The BFG 22.png
The BFG 29.png
The BFG 41.png
The BFG 42.png
The BFG 43.png
The BFG 44.png
The BFG 47.png
The BFG 49.png
The BFG - Poster.jpg
Funko Pop BFG Figure.jpg
</gallery>
{{DEFAULTSORT:Big Friendly Giant, The}}
[[Category:The BFG characters]]
[[Category:Giants]]
[[Category:Males]]
[[Category:Adults]]
[[Category:Live-action characters]]
[[Category:Heroes]]
[[Category:Disney characters]]
[[Category:Elderly characters]]
[[Category:Immortal]]
[[Category:Deuteragonists]]
[[Category:Legendary creatures]]